Inverse Causality

If I say Do Not think of Pink Elephants...

This is the nature of the mind.

If you hold in your mind the opposite of something you want to happen you are actually acting as a forcing function to manifest
the very thing you do not want to happen. 

In the context of wether or not something manifests, there is a parameter in which you have greater weight than any other 
individual in regards to that thing becomeing reality.

Because, when something does become reality it happens by the means of a multitude of individuals.  You, as an indivual exist
 as a qoutient of the equation relative to that thing coming into existence. //

x = the "thing" in question

y = you

y^1 = every other individual //

x will represent wether or not a given phenomenon comes into existence or not. Binary, 0 or 1

y and y^1 will operate on a spectrum between 0 and 1. These values will act to describe the relative existence of an idea in 
the mind.

x = y/y^1

So, if you as a variable in this equation are 0 then there will be no chance for a given thing to come into existence.  This
 is because you will not be observing it. Even down to the most fleeting hunch of a feeling. 
If y = 0 the thing will not exist.  If n number of other individuals hold such the idea or concept of the thing in their minds
 there will still be no existence of the thing.  0 divided by n is always 0.

Now, on the contrary, if y = 1  and y^1 = 0 we encounter a paradox.  We know that n divided by 0 is undefined or ERROR.. 
 In our example, if you hold the thing in your mind and no one else has even a glimmer of such
thing then what is x? Can something exist if you are the only one who observes it? 

I think this suggests something about the nature of existence, that it is our shared acknowledgement of something existing 
that creates reality.

Applying this framework may be usefull as a means of understanding the role you play in manifesting your needs, wants and 
desires.  Lets say that you really, really dont want to fail. You work out all the modes of
possiblity in the context of failing. You worry about the reprocautions, worry about the shame or guilt you might feel. 
 Maybe you even prepare excuses in your mind for when you do fail.  

This is a faulty approach because you are laying the cognative groundwork for that very failure to come into existance!

Im not saying that any acknowledgement of failure will lead to impendig doom, but the positive affirmitive thinking must 
outweigh the negative. You must push y as close to 1 as you can.  Surely, there is significant 
value in understanding the implications of failure and understanding them should actually result in more confidence in
 yourself to succeed. 

In the context of do not think of pink elephants, be the pink elephant.   
